docs/plugins/language.md, before:

# Language

The Language plugin supports internationalisation features for your App.

## Usage

In order to use the Language plugin, import it from the Lightning SDK.

```js
import { Language } from '@lightningjs/sdk'
```

### Loading on boot

You can automatically load and initialize the Language plugin when your App boots, by specifying a `static` method `language()`
on the `App`-class in `src/App.js`.

The `language`-method should return which language to use on initialisation. This can either be a string or a Promise that resolves a
string with the language code.


```js
export default class App extends Lightning.Component {

  static language() {
    // hardcoded string
    return 'en'
    // or string retrieved van Storage
    return Storage.get('selectedLanguage') || 'en'
    // or a promise (e.g. using the Profile plugin)
    return Profile.language()
  }

}
```

### Translations file

By default the Language plugin expects a `json` file, called `translations.json` in the `static` folder of your App.

If you want, you can specify a different name and / or location for your translations file, or even host it on a remote CDN.
You can configure this via the `static` method `language()` on `App.js`, by returning an object with a `file` and a
`language` property (instead of just the initial language).

```js
export default class App extends Lightning.Component {

  static language() {
    return {
      file: Utils.asset('my/custom/language-file.json'),
      language: Profile.language() // or hardcoded string 'en'
    }
  }

}
```

The translations file should contain valid json in the following format.

```json
{
  "en": {
    "key": "translated string in English",
    "another key": "another translated string in English"
  },
  "nl": {
    "key": "translated string in Dutch",
    "another key": "another translated string in Dutch"
  }
}
```

Optionally you can add an extra `meta`-key to `translations.json` with more detailed configuration and metadata.

```json
{
  "meta": {
    "default": "en", // default fallback language
    "names": { // human readable names for language codes
        "en": "English",
        "nl": "Nederlands"
    },
    "map": { // mapping language codes
      "en-US": "en",
      "en-GB": "en",
      "nl-NL": "nl",
      "nl-BE": "nl"
    }
  },
  "en": {
    //
  },
  "nl": {
    //
  }

}
```

#### Splitting up in several files

Depending on the size of an App and the number of supported languages, the translations file may grow rather large.
This can make managing translations more cumbersome during development. But it can also negatively affect loading time
(since the entire `translations.json` is loaded upon boot).

For this reason, the Language plugin offers the option to split the translations in different files (i.e. `en.json` and `nl.json`).
Each file must contain a basic _JSON_ object with keys and their translated values. For example:

```json
{
  "key": "translated string in English",
  "another key": "another translated string in English"
}
```

Next, in the main `translations.json` the different language files must be properly wired up.

Instead of specifying an entire _JSON_ object, the location of the corresponding JSON file in the `static`-folder should be specified as a `String`.

For example:

```json
{
  "meta": {
    "default": "en",
  },
  "en": "translations/en.json",
  "nl": "translations/dutch.json"
}
```

It is possible to use both inline JSON objects and references to external language files in the same `translations.json` file.

External language files are loaded on the fly when a specific language is being set. This may add some load time
when switching languages.

## Available methods

### Set

Sets or changes the current Language.

```js
const languageCode = 'en'
Language.set(languageCode).then(() => {
  // the current language is now 'en'
}).catch()
```

The `set`-method returns a Promise, that resolves when the Language has been properly changed.
Setting the language is _instant_ for translations specified inline in the `translations.json` file.
In the case of external language files an _asynchronous_ load request will be made.

The language code should match with one of the language-keys specified in your `translations.json`.

The `map` option in the `meta` key of your translations file can be used to specify _aliases_, and as such can be used
to map different ISO codes (i.e. en-GB, en-US, etc.) to a single language key (en).

If you have specified a `default` language in the `meta` key of your translations file, the Language plugin will use
that as a fallback in case no matching language was found.

Note, changing the language doesn't automatically trigger a template render update.

#### Translate

Translates a key to the matching value.

```js
Language.translate('hello')
```

The translate method will lookup the translation-key in the current selected language and return the _translated_ value.
If no value is found in the dictionary of the current language, it will return the supplied key.

Optionally you can specify _replacements_ in the translated string. There are 2 ways of defining replacements: _order_ based and _name_ based.

Consider the following `translations.json`:

```json
{
  "en": {
    "introduction1": "Hi, my name is {0}, my lastname is {1} and I am {2} years old",
    "introduction2": "Hi, my name is {firstname}, my lastname is {lastname} and I am {age} years old",
  }
}
```

We can either pass a set of function argument for order based replacements.

```js
Language.translate('introduction1', 'John', 'Doe', 18)
// Hi, my name is John, my lastname is Doe and I am 18 years old
```

Or a _key-value_-object for name based replacements.

```js
Language.translate('introduction2', {lastname: 'Smith', firstname: 'Joe', age: 27}) // name based replacements
// Hi, my name is Joe, my lastname is Smith and I am 27 years old
```

### Available

Returns an Array with the available languages as specified in `translations.json`, which can for example be used to display
a dynamic language switcher in your App.

The `available`-method will return an Array of objects with a `code` and a `name` property.

The `name` property will be set to the language name as specified in the `meta.names` property of your translation file.
If you have not specified `names`, or if a particular language does not have a name defined, the property will default to
the `code`-value.

```js
Language.available()
// [{code: 'en', name: 'English'}, {code: 'nl', name: 'Nederlands'}, {code: 'de': name: 'de'}]
```

### Translations

Advanced method that allows you to set the translations manually during runtime, instead of using the automatic load
of `translations.json` on boot.

```js

const translations = {
  meta: {
    map: {
      'en-US': 'en',
      'en-GB': 'en',
      'nl-NL': 'nl',
      'nl-BE': 'nl',
    }
  },
  en: {
    hello: 'hello {name}',
    goodbye: 'goodbye {name}',
  },
  nl: {
    hello: 'hallo {name}',
    goodbye: 'tot ziens {name}',
  },
}

Language.translations(translations)
Language.set('en-GB')
Language.translation('hello', {name: 'John'})
```

Commit message:

doc(language.md): added get method
Added get method documentation.

docs/plugins/language.md, after:

# Language

The Language plugin supports internationalisation features for your App.

## Usage

In order to use the Language plugin, import it from the Lightning SDK.

```js
import { Language } from '@lightningjs/sdk'
```

### Loading on boot

You can automatically load and initialize the Language plugin when your App boots, by specifying a `static` method `language()`
on the `App`-class in `src/App.js`.

The `language`-method should return which language to use on initialisation. This can either be a string or a Promise that resolves a
string with the language code.


```js
export default class App extends Lightning.Component {

  static language() {
    // hardcoded string
    return 'en'
    // or string retrieved van Storage
    return Storage.get('selectedLanguage') || 'en'
    // or a promise (e.g. using the Profile plugin)
    return Profile.language()
  }

}
```

### Translations file

By default the Language plugin expects a `json` file, called `translations.json` in the `static` folder of your App.

If you want, you can specify a different name and / or location for your translations file, or even host it on a remote CDN.
You can configure this via the `static` method `language()` on `App.js`, by returning an object with a `file` and a
`language` property (instead of just the initial language).

```js
export default class App extends Lightning.Component {

  static language() {
    return {
      file: Utils.asset('my/custom/language-file.json'),
      language: Profile.language() // or hardcoded string 'en'
    }
  }

}
```

The translations file should contain valid json in the following format.

```json
{
  "en": {
    "key": "translated string in English",
    "another key": "another translated string in English"
  },
  "nl": {
    "key": "translated string in Dutch",
    "another key": "another translated string in Dutch"
  }
}
```

Optionally you can add an extra `meta`-key to `translations.json` with more detailed configuration and metadata.

```json
{
  "meta": {
    "default": "en", // default fallback language
    "names": { // human readable names for language codes
        "en": "English",
        "nl": "Nederlands"
    },
    "map": { // mapping language codes
      "en-US": "en",
      "en-GB": "en",
      "nl-NL": "nl",
      "nl-BE": "nl"
    }
  },
  "en": {
    //
  },
  "nl": {
    //
  }

}
```

#### Splitting up in several files

Depending on the size of an App and the number of supported languages, the translations file may grow rather large.
This can make managing translations more cumbersome during development. But it can also negatively affect loading time
(since the entire `translations.json` is loaded upon boot).

For this reason, the Language plugin offers the option to split the translations in different files (i.e. `en.json` and `nl.json`).
Each file must contain a basic _JSON_ object with keys and their translated values. For example:

```json
{
  "key": "translated string in English",
  "another key": "another translated string in English"
}
```

Next, in the main `translations.json` the different language files must be properly wired up.

Instead of specifying an entire _JSON_ object, the location of the corresponding JSON file in the `static`-folder should be specified as a `String`.

For example:

```json
{
  "meta": {
    "default": "en",
  },
  "en": "translations/en.json",
  "nl": "translations/dutch.json"
}
```

It is possible to use both inline JSON objects and references to external language files in the same `translations.json` file.

External language files are loaded on the fly when a specific language is being set. This may add some load time
when switching languages.

## Available methods

### Set

Sets or changes the current Language.

```js
const languageCode = 'en'
Language.set(languageCode).then(() => {
  // the current language is now 'en'
}).catch()
```

The `set`-method returns a Promise, that resolves when the Language has been properly changed.
Setting the language is _instant_ for translations specified inline in the `translations.json` file.
In the case of external language files an _asynchronous_ load request will be made.

The language code should match with one of the language-keys specified in your `translations.json`.

The `map` option in the `meta` key of your translations file can be used to specify _aliases_, and as such can be used
to map different ISO codes (i.e. en-GB, en-US, etc.) to a single language key (en).

If you have specified a `default` language in the `meta` key of your translations file, the Language plugin will use
that as a fallback in case no matching language was found.

Note, changing the language doesn't automatically trigger a template render update.

### Get

Get's and returns the current Language you are using.

```js
// The Language used is 'en'
const currentLanguage = Language.get()
// currentLanguage = 'en'
```

This will help you, on your application to test, check and do some particular changes by the language you are using in your application (or the one you are changing at).

It's really useful in conjuntion with the set.

#### Translate

Translates a key to the matching value.

```js
Language.translate('hello')
```

The translate method will lookup the translation-key in the current selected language and return the _translated_ value.
If no value is found in the dictionary of the current language, it will return the supplied key.

Optionally you can specify _replacements_ in the translated string. There are 2 ways of defining replacements: _order_ based and _name_ based.

Consider the following `translations.json`:

```json
{
  "en": {
    "introduction1": "Hi, my name is {0}, my lastname is {1} and I am {2} years old",
    "introduction2": "Hi, my name is {firstname}, my lastname is {lastname} and I am {age} years old",
  }
}
```

We can either pass a set of function argument for order based replacements.

```js
Language.translate('introduction1', 'John', 'Doe', 18)
// Hi, my name is John, my lastname is Doe and I am 18 years old
```

Or a _key-value_-object for name based replacements.

```js
Language.translate('introduction2', {lastname: 'Smith', firstname: 'Joe', age: 27}) // name based replacements
// Hi, my name is Joe, my lastname is Smith and I am 27 years old
```

### Available

Returns an Array with the available languages as specified in `translations.json`, which can for example be used to display
a dynamic language switcher in your App.

The `available`-method will return an Array of objects with a `code` and a `name` property.

The `name` property will be set to the language name as specified in the `meta.names` property of your translation file.
If you have not specified `names`, or if a particular language does not have a name defined, the property will default to
the `code`-value.

```js
Language.available()
// [{code: 'en', name: 'English'}, {code: 'nl', name: 'Nederlands'}, {code: 'de': name: 'de'}]
```

### Translations

Advanced method that allows you to set the translations manually during runtime, instead of using the automatic load
of `translations.json` on boot.

```js

const translations = {
  meta: {
    map: {
      'en-US': 'en',
      'en-GB': 'en',
      'nl-NL': 'nl',
      'nl-BE': 'nl',
    }
  },
  en: {
    hello: 'hello {name}',
    goodbye: 'goodbye {name}',
  },
  nl: {
    hello: 'hallo {name}',
    goodbye: 'tot ziens {name}',
  },
}

Language.translations(translations)
Language.set('en-GB')
Language.translation('hello', {name: 'John'})
```
