docs/plugins/lifecycle.md, before:

# Lifecycle

Via the Lifecycle plugin the current lifecycle state can be etrieved. The plugin also allows an App to change the state of the application (limited to 'close' and 'ready').

The SDK also informs the App whenever the App lifecycle state changes by emitting events. You can listen to these events by using
the `Events` plugin.

## Usage

Whenever you need to change or consult the current Lifecycle state, import the `Lifecycle` plugin from the SDK.

```js
import { Lifecycle } from '@lightningjs/sdk'
```

## Available states

The following states are available:

| State         | Description                                 |
| ------------- |:-------------------------------------------:|
| init          | Application is initialising                 |
| ready         | Application is ready for user interaction   |
| active        | Application is running, and in focus        |
| background    | Application is running, not in focus        |
| pause         | Application is pausing, not in focus        |
| close         | Application is closing and will be unloaded |

## State handling

As an application developer it is important to understand the impact of different states and handle state transitions accordingly. Information to consider:

* In _background_ state the application is not in focus, something may be obstructing the screen however application can continue to process data and use media playback.
* In _pause_ state the application runtime *may* be stopped, however the Application should stop media playback, clear the screen and reduce runtime intervals/timers where possible.
* The _close_ state is a intermediate state and means the application will be unloaded soon, you should stop all timers/intervals and remove references to data for garbage collection. Any graphics should be cleaned up.
* The _init_ state is a intermediate state and means the application is starting.

## Available methods

### Retrieve the current state

If the Application needs to know the current state, you can call the `state` function at any given time.

```js
Lifecycle.state() // returns init, active etc.
```

### Change current state to ready

The Lifecycle state can be set to ready

```js
Lifecycle.ready()
```

### Change current state to close

If the app wants to close the `close` function can be called. This will call the appropriate SDK functions to start its cleanup routine.

```js
Lifecycle.close()
```
### Listening for events

In order to listen for Lifecycle events, import the `Events` plugin from the SDK

```js
import { Lifecycle } from '@lightningjs/sdk'
```

The _Lifecycle_ plugin will emit any change in state via the `Events` plugin under the _Lifecycle_ plugin namespace.
You'll be able to execute a callback upon any event. For more info please refer to the [Events](#plugins/events) plugin.

Some examples:

```js
Events.listen('Lifecycle', 'background', () => {
  // the app is going into the background
})
```

```js
Events.listen('Lifecycle', 'close', () => {
  // the app is about to close, send events and do cleanup
})
```

```js
Events.listen('Lifecycle', (val, plugin, event) => {
  // listen to all 'Lifecycle' events
})
```

Commit message:

Added finished-method to lifecycle. Updated documentation.

docs/plugins/lifecycle.md, after:

# Lifecycle

Via the Lifecycle plugin the current lifecycle state can be etrieved. The plugin also allows an App to change the state of the application (limited to 'close' and 'ready').

The SDK also informs the App whenever the App lifecycle state changes by emitting events. You can listen to these events by using
the `Events` plugin.

## Usage

Whenever you need to change or consult the current Lifecycle state, import the `Lifecycle` plugin from the SDK.

```js
import { Lifecycle } from '@lightningjs/sdk'
```

## Available states

The following states are available:

| State         | Description                                 |
| ------------- |:-------------------------------------------:|
| init          | Application is initialising                 |
| ready         | Application is ready for user interaction   |
| active        | Application is running, and in focus        |
| background    | Application is running, not in focus        |
| pause         | Application is pausing, not in focus        |
| close         | Application is closing and will be unloaded |

## State handling

As an application developer it is important to understand the impact of different states and handle state transitions accordingly. Information to consider:

* In _background_ state the application is not in focus, something may be obstructing the screen however application can continue to process data and use media playback.
* In _pause_ state the application runtime *may* be stopped, however the Application should stop media playback, clear the screen and reduce runtime intervals/timers where possible.
* The _close_ state is a intermediate state and means the application will be unloaded soon, you should stop all timers/intervals and remove references to data for garbage collection. Any graphics should be cleaned up.
* The _init_ state is a intermediate state and means the application is starting.

## Available methods

### Retrieve the current state

If the Application needs to know the current state, you can call the `state` function at any given time.

```js
Lifecycle.state() // returns init, active etc.
```

### Ready state

Upon launch the App will enter the `init` state. As soon as the App is minimally loaded and ready to be displayed / used.
The App should notify the platform that it's _ready_ by calling `Lifecycle.ready()`.

Once in a ready state, the platform can put the App in an `active` state, meaning the App is fully up and running, and in focus.

```js
Lifecycle.ready()
```

### Close state

If the app wants to close, the `Lifecycle.close()` method can be called. This will trigger the appropriate SDK and platform functions to start the cleanup routine.

```js
Lifecycle.close()
```

The App can also be put in a `close` state by the platform itself. This will emit the `close` event under the `Lifecycle` namespace.

In the closing callback, the App can execute some logic, such as saving state, sending out analytics calls etc. When completed, the App
should call the `Lifecycle.finished()` method, indicating that the App can be fully terminated.

Note that the platform can decide to terminate the App _before_ the `finished()`-method is called, in case the App's closing logic is taking too long.
### Listening for events

In order to listen for Lifecycle events, import the `Events` plugin from the SDK

```js
import { Lifecycle } from '@lightningjs/sdk'
```

The _Lifecycle_ plugin will emit any change in state via the `Events` plugin under the _Lifecycle_ plugin namespace.
You'll be able to execute a callback upon any event. For more info please refer to the [Events](#plugins/events) plugin.

Some examples:

```js
Events.listen('Lifecycle', 'background', () => {
  // the app is going into the background
})
```

```js
Events.listen('Lifecycle', 'close', () => {
  // the app is about to close, send events and do cleanup
  // when ready to be terminated, notify back to the platform
  Lifecycle.finished()
})
```

```js
Events.listen('Lifecycle', (val, plugin, event) => {
  // listen to all 'Lifecycle' events
})
```
